- [Instructor] We have now seen how serverless works
at a very high level,
so let's take a look at why one would want to do this.
First and foremost is cost savings.
With serverless,
you get the ability to scale based on your need.
But instead of scaling for your highest demand,
you're scaling by the operation,
and you're paying for just the operation.
And by doing so,
you are not paying for your peak usage throughout the year,
as I previously stated.
You also get benefits from reduced maintenance.
So, even though a VM may be in the cloud,
you still have maintenance that you have to do on it.
You've got to upgrade your VM,
you've got to patch components.
And with serverless, you simply deploy your code.
You don't do any of those maintenance activities
on your VM itself.
Now, separation is another key benefit of using serverless.
There is no longer a need to cram disjointed operations
into a single VM in order to maximize its value.
You get some security and permissions benefits as well,
because usually with serverless,
these functions are operating in their own little sandbox,
and that sandbox has its own security
and its own permissions associated with it
and you're not crossing threads with other functions
that may be operating in the same VM pool.
Again, something that you don't get when you're trying
to cram multiple operations
into a single or VM pool itself.
Another benefit of this separation
is it solves many of the async patterns that we have
by reducing the waste associated with them.
Let me give you an example.
Traditionally, when we write a message listener,
we run that on a server
that is actively pulling against the messaging system
to determine if there is a message to act on.
And in doing so, it's using resources,
but there's a lot of waste associated with that.
With serverless, we actually trigger the serverless function
based on the presence of a message.
And this again reduces our waste,
but allows us a just-in-time operation
that reduces overall costs,
since we're only paying for the operation itself.
Now let's talk a little bit more
about asynchronous operations,
because most, if not all, serverless functions
tend to end up being some form of an asynchronous process.
Even if it's running a website,
a lot of times we will front that with some sort of CDN
that actually makes the operation itself async.
Now, not always,
but async is a very strong pattern
and it's worth talking about.
The serverless functions can be a key player
in asynchronous operations,
especially as you move into a public cloud ecosystem.
Again, it reduces the waste of waiting.
That waiting operation is nothing but a wasteful event
when you're dealing with operations of scale
on a VM consumption model.
It's also much easier to isolate and respond
in a serverless function type behavior
because each listener will respond
based on a function itself,
as opposed to a listener pool
that responds to many different queues.
It also offers a lot of flexibility
in that you can scale multiple operations
within a serverless function by chaining them together
instead of tying them all to individual listeners.
A lot of times, we would do things in async
where the first listener would do some operation
and put a message back on a queue
so that another listener could pick it up.
Well, with serverless functions,
we can simply trigger the next in the chain
without the intermediate queue that was really a fancy way
of doing piping across a large-scale operation.